---
layout: Post
Title: Blog Post 4
---


The tasks for Project 2 was to take the day.csv file, read it in, then split the data into a training data set and a testing data set. Then the training data was used to create bar plots, histograms, box plots, scatter plots, density plots, and ECDM plots. These plots used various combinations of predictor variables with response variables to give inference and explore the relationship between them. The response variables that were used were casual bike users, registered bike users, and the total count of bike users. After the plots were created, the same training data was used to find the best linear regression model that would be able to use a linear formula for prediction against the testing data set. The RMSE was used as the method to determine which linear model would be best suited for prediction. The lowest value of the RMSE would give the linear model that would be best for prediction. 

In this project, one thing that I could have done differently is done a little more research the variables so that I could have selected which variables to use the data sets with a little more content knowledge. The most difficult part of the project was figuring out some of the warnings and errors that I encountered and how to solve them. The issues gave made it a little challenging to trouble shoot and solve them so that the program could run smoothly. But other than that, I think the biggest takeaways from this project is actually being able to read and write the R code for the plots and the linear regression models to get the desired results. This is the first time in the course that I have felt really confident that I knew what I was doing and I knew what the tasks were asking me to do. I hope to continue with this growth in the class moving forward to other assginments. My partner was awesome and was a big help in the learning.
